---
layout: page
---

{% include main_title.html text="About Competitive Programming" %}

If you want to know more about competitive programming at Princeton or
just to chat about competitive programming in general feel free to
contact [Pedro Paredes](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~pparedes/)
(pparedes_at_cs.princeton.edu).

## What is competitive programming?

Competitive programming is an activity where individuals or teams
solve complex algorithmic and mathematical problems within strict time
limits. Participants use programming languages to devise efficient
solutions, aiming to optimize both correctness and speed. It's a
highly competitive and intellectually stimulating activity that
attracts computer science enthusiasts worldwide, testing their coding
skills and problem-solving prowess in a structured and competitive
environment.

## Why should I do competitive programming?

Competitive programming sharpens your problem-solving and coding
skills, preparing you for the challenges of the tech industry. It
fosters a mindset of efficiency and creativity while tackling complex
problems within tight deadlines. Additionally, participation enhances
your resumes and opens doors to internships and job opportunities at
top tech companies, making it a practical and rewarding investment in
their future careers. It's also a great way to practice for teach
interviews.

If you are interested in competing in university contests, check out
our page on the [ICPC contests]({{ site.baseurl }}/icpc).

## What if I don't want to compete?

Most of our events are about problem solving and learning, and
competition is completely optional. By coming to our [weekly
events]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall23) you can learn more about problem
solving, learn new algorithms and data structures, practice your
coding abilities and prepare for tech interviews. We will also
organize interview prep sessions during the fall semester (details to
be announced soon), which will be more focused on the interview
aspects.