---
layout: page
---

{% include main_title.html text="Fall 24 Sessions" %}

In the Fall of 2024 we are hosting a problem solving session every
Friday from 5pm to 7:30pm (more information about this below). This is
open to everyone interested in competitive programming, regardless of
how experienced you are. There is also no commitment, so feel free to
show up at any of the sessions. We will have **free food and snacks**
during each session.

If you want to know more information about competitive programming
check our [about page]({{ site.baseurl }}/about). We also have a
[resources page]({{ site.baseurl }}/resources) with lots of links to
materials of all levels for you to practice and learn more. Finally,
if you are thinking about competing in the International Collegiate
Programming Contests, check our [contests
page]({{ site.baseurl }}/icpc).

We have a <i class="bi bi-discord"></i> Discord channel, to join please
contact [Pedro Paredes](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~pparedes/)
(pparedes_at_cs.princeton.edu).

## Basic Information

We have regular sessions every **Friday** from **5pm to 7:30pm** in
**Friend Center Room 004**. You will need a laptop and optionally pen
and paper to work on problems. Also, you don't have to be there for
the full two and a half hours, if you can only show up for an hour,
please feel free to do so!

Every session will consist of up to 2.5 hours of problem solving, with
a break for food in the middle. Occasionally, there will be a lecture
about some algorithmic topic.

Each session is divided into two groups: the learn division group; and
the compete division group. You are free to choose whatever group you
want and you can switch at any point.

 * **Learn division**: intended for those with little or no
   competitive programming experience. Each session will focus on
   learning a new concept, algorithm or data structure, as well as
   applying it to solve a few problems.

 * **Compete division** is intended for those with experience in
     competitive programming. Each session will contain problems of
     increasing difficulties to target different levels of experience.


If you have never participated in a session, check out the
[introduction guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/intro_guide). We also have a
codeforces group you can join by going to the following link:
[https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/)
(you should click on *join* on the right in order to access the
problems).

## Schedule

### Week 6 (October 25)
 * [ICPC Local Qualifier]({{ site.baseurl }}/icpc24): [Contest](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/561172)
 
 * Learn Division: [Problems](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/561424) \| Solutions

### Week 5 (October 11)
 * Compete Division: [Problems](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/557509) \| Solutions
 
 * Learn Division: [Problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week5_learn) \| Solutions

### Week 4 (October 4)
 * Compete Division: [Problems](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/555433) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/F24 W4 Compete - Solutions.pdf)
 
 * Learn Division: [Problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week4_learn) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week4_learn/solutions)

### Week 3 (September 27)
 * Compete Division: [Problems](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/553386) \| [Hints]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week3_compete) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/F24 W3 Compete - Solutions.pdf)
 
 * Learn Division: [Problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week3_learn) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week3_learn/solutions)

### Week 2 (September 20)
 * Compete Division: [Problems](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/551615) \| [Hints]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week2_compete) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/F24 W2 Compete - Solutions.pdf)
 
 * Learn Division (Sorting and Divide and Conquer): [Problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week2_learn) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week2_learn/solutions)

### Week 1 (September 13)
 * Compete Division: [Problems](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/549920) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/files/F24 W1 Compete - Solutions.pdf)
 
 * Learn Division: [Problems]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week1_learn) \| [Solutions]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall24/week1_learn/solutions)