---
layout: page
---

{% include main_title.html text="Training Resources" %}

We use a <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> rating to indicate the target
audience of each resource. One <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> means it
is suited for people with little to no experience in competitive
programming, two <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi
bi-cup-hot"></i> mean it is suited for people with some experience in
competitive programming, and three <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> mean it is
suited for people experienced in competitive programming. Some links
have multiple ratings when they are suited to different levels.

## Learning to Program

You can use most languages for competitive programming (like Java,
C++, Python, even OCaml!), but the most popular language is
**C++**. Here we include some resources for people that want to learn
C++.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Chapters 2 of the Principles of
   Algorithmic Problem
   Solving](https://www.csc.kth.se/%7Ejsannemo/slask/main.pdf), by
   Johan Sannemo: this book (also mentioned below) is a really good
   introduction book to competitive programming. Chapter 2 is all
   about C++ and guides you from the very basics of programming in C++
   to more advanced topics. It's great for people that have never used
   C or C++ at all, especially if you want to learn some tricks for
   competitive programming.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [The cplusplus.com C++
   tutorial](https://cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/): this is a fairly
   comprehensive collection of short articles that go through all the
   important features of C++. Great for people that have never used C
   or C++ at all. This resource is better than the previous one if you
   think you want to use C++ outside of competitive programming, since
   it teaches it in a more generic way.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Learn C++ in Y
   minutes](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/c++/): this is a really
   quick reference of the main features of C++. It doesn't have a lot
   of explanation, so it is better suited for people that know a bit
   of C or C++.

We also include some tips and tricks on how to optimize your language
for competitive programming with things like macros and fast IO. For
C++ users we highly recommend learning about the STL (Standard
Library). This is a really powerful library that contains many data
structures and algorithms that are **really** useful in competitive
programming.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [USACO Guide article on Input &
  Output](https://usaco.guide/general/input-output): choose your
  favorite language and learn about how to read input and print
  output.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [USACO Guide article on Fast Input &
  Output](https://usaco.guide/general/fast-io): the typical methods
  for handling input/output are great, but they are actually really
  slow. In competitive programming we often need to read or write a
  lot of data, so it is important to know how to process data really
  fast. This article teaches you how to read/write data quickly in
  either Java or C++.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Chapters
   3 of the Principles of Algorithmic Problem
   Solving](https://www.csc.kth.se/%7Ejsannemo/slask/main.pdf), by
   Johan Sannemo: this book (also mentioned above and below) is a
   really good introduction book to competitive programming. Chapter 3
   talks about the STL and goes over most of the tools that are useful
   in competitive programming.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Article on C++ tips and
  tricks](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/74684): a codeforces
  article highlighting a lot of practical tricks to use in C++. This
  article is a bit more advanced and is better suited for people with
  some experience with C++.

## Learning Algorithms

There are a ton of resources on algorithms for competitive
programming. Here we highlight a sample of the best resources, some of
which are targeted at beginners and some for more advanced
coders. Note that to become good at competitive programming you really
need to practice by solving new problems and participating in
contests, so do look at the next section on where to practice to
complement your readings.

We will first look at some general resources.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Competitive Programmerâ€™s
  Handbook](https://cses.fi/book/book.pdf) by Antti Laaksonen: this is
  an amazing book that covers pretty much all the fundamental topics
  in competitive programming starting from sorting and time complexity
  all the way to advanced data structures and geometry. It is great
  for people with no experience or with some experience in competitive
  programming. **NOTE:** there is a [paid
  version](https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-319-72547-5)
  of the book with extra content that is available for free from
  Princeton IP addresses.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi
  bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [The USACO
  guide](https://usaco.guide/): this is a collection of curated,
  high-quality competitive programming resources. It is intended for
  high school students participating in the olympiads, but it's great
  for everyone since it covers almost anything you can think of that
  could show up on a competitive programming contest.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> An Introduction to the USA Computer
  Olympiad [Java](https://darrenyao.com/usacobook/java.pdf) and
  [C++](https://darrenyao.com/usacobook/cpp.pdf): this is a short book
  written to introduce people into competitive programming in either
  Java or C++. It is intended for high school students that want to
  start participating in the olympiad contests, but it is also really
  helpful for college students that want to get started in competitive
  programming. It is intended for people with no experience or that
  are just getting started.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi
  bi-cup-hot"></i> [Algorithms for Competitive Programming
  website](https://cp-algorithms.com/): a collection of articles on a
  lot of topics in competitive programming. One very nice feature of
  these articles is that they are often very detailed and show a lot
  of variants and applications of the algorithm or data structure they
  are talking about. It is a more advanced resource only recommended
  to intermediate to advanced people.

We will now list some resources that are topic specific. These will
all be advanced topics and we recommend you get experienced with the
fundamentals of competitive programming (using some of the above
resources) before looking at these:

* (Topic: Geometry) <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi
  bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Handbook of geometry
  for competitive programmers](https://victorlecomte.com/cp-geo.pdf)
  by Victor Lecomte: an introduction to all the geometry needed for
  competitive programming. Note that this doesn't really include
  computational geometry, it is more about the geometry primitives
  that can be used in computational geometry (which you can find a lot
  of on
  [here](https://cp-algorithms.com/geometry/basic-geometry.html)).

* (Topic: Dynamic Programming) <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> Collection
  of resources on Dynamic Programming Optimizations: [summary of
  techniques](https://maratona.ic.unicamp.br/MaratonaVerao2017/documents/dp.pdf),
  [Knuth's
  Optimization](https://jeffreyxiao.me/blog/knuths-optimization),
  [Convex Hull Trick](https://jeffreyxiao.me/blog/convex-hull-trick),
  [Divide and Conquer
  Optimization](https://jeffreyxiao.me/blog/divide-and-conquer-optimization),
  [another summary](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/8219).

## Practicing Problems and Contests

There are several websites available to practice competitive
programming. Some are problem repositories, where you can find and
submit solutions to a collection of problems. Some are contest
websites that host regular contests of different levels. Usually the
latter also have a large repository of problems you can solve outside
of contests. Both play important roles because to get better at
competitive programming you need to solve lots of different kinds of
problems, but also practice in actual contests (or simulations of
contests), much like our [weekly sessions]({{ site.baseurl }}/fall22).

Here is a list of problem repositories.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [CSES Problem
  Set](https://cses.fi/problemset/): this is a collection of over 300
  problems of different categories that are take you through all the
  fundamentals of competitive programming. It is highly recommended to
  beginners.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> [Kattis
  Problem Archive](https://open.kattis.com/): a collection of problems
  of all difficulties, mostly taken from ICPC contests.

Here is a list of contest websites:

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i>
  [Codeforces](https://codeforces.com/): this is the website we use
  for our weekly sessions. It has really high quality problems and
  contests and lots of other resources including articles on different
  topics and a discussion board.

* <i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i> / <i
  class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi bi-cup-hot"></i><i class="bi
  bi-cup-hot"></i> [AtCoder](https://atcoder.jp/): another really high
  quality website with tons of great problems.