---
layout: page
---

{% include main_title.html text="Spring 23 Sessions" %}

In the Spring of 2023 we are hosting a competitive programming session
every Friday from 5pm to 7:30pm (more information about this
below). This is open to everyone interested in competitive
programming, regardless of how experienced you are. There is also no
commitment, so feel free to show up at any of the sessions. We will
have **free food and snacks** during each session.

If you want to know more information about competitive programming
check our [about page]({{ site.baseurl }}/about). We also have a
[resources page]({{ site.baseurl }}/resources) with lots of links to
materials of all levels for you to practice and learn more. Finally,
if you are thinking about competing in the International Collegiate
Programming Contests, check our [contests
page](http://princeton.acm.org/events/icpc/index.html).

We have a <i class="bi bi-discord"></i> Discord channel, to join please
contact [Pedro Paredes](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~pparedes/)
(pparedes_at_cs.princeton.edu).

## Basic Information

We have regular sessions every **Friday** from **5pm to 7:30pm** in
TBD. You will need a laptop and optionally pen and paper to work on
problems. Also, you don't have to be there for the full two and a half
hours, if you can only show up for an hour, please feel free to do so!

Each session is divided into two groups: the division I group; and the
division II group. You are free to choose whatever group you want and
you can switch at any point.

 * **The division II** group is intended for those with little or no
   competitive programming experience. On most weeks we will start with a
   **short lecture** on some introductory topic in competitive
   programming. Afterwards, we will have a **practice contest**
   where you will work on a couple of problems, some of which will be
   related to the contents of the lecture.

 * **The division I** is intended for those with experience in
     competitive programming. Each session consists in a **2.5 hour
     contest** with problems of varying difficulties.

Note that most contest problems have appeared before in other
competitions from around the world. We won't have original problems in
our contests unless otherwise mentioned.

Our contests are going to be hosted on a platform called
[codeforces](https://codeforces.com/). You will need an account in
order to solve problems here. We also have a group you can join by
going to the following link:
[https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/)
(you should click on *join* on the right in order to access the
problems and contests).

## Schedule

### Week 1 (February 10)

 * Division I contest: TBD
 
 * Division II contest: TBD