---
permalink: /final_fall_22
layout: page
---

{% include main_title.html text="Final Contest Fall 2022" %}

### Week 12 (December 9)

## Winners

 * 1st Place of Div I - Daniel Yang (4 problems solved)
 * 2nd Place of Div I - Linus So (3 problems solved)
 * 1st Place of Div II - Xander Gardner (5 problems solved)
 * 2nd Place of Div II - Stephen Jiang (3 problems solved)

Special prize winner - Joie Zhang (last solved problem)

<div id="slideShow" class="carousel slide mb-2" data-bs-ride="true">
  <div class="carousel-indicators">
    <button type="button" data-bs-target="#slideShow" data-bs-slide-to="0" class="active" aria-current="true" aria-label="Slide 1"></button>
    <button type="button" data-bs-target="#slideShow" data-bs-slide-to="1" aria-label="Slide 2"></button>
  </div>
  <div class="carousel-inner">
    <div class="carousel-item active">
      <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/files/photos_f22_w12/img_1.jpg" class="d-block w-100">
    </div>
    <div class="carousel-item">
      <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/files/photos_f22_w12/img_2.jpg" class="d-block w-100">
    </div>
  </div>
  <button class="carousel-control-prev" type="button" data-bs-target="#slideShow" data-bs-slide="prev">
    <span class="carousel-control-prev-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="visually-hidden">Previous</span>
  </button>
  <button class="carousel-control-next" type="button" data-bs-target="#slideShow" data-bs-slide="next">
    <span class="carousel-control-next-icon" aria-hidden="true"></span>
    <span class="visually-hidden">Next</span>
  </button>
</div>

After 12 weeks of competitive programming we are finally at the end of
the semester. To celebrate this occasion, we will have an end of
semester special contest with prizes and some holiday cheer. The
contest is open to all undergraduate students at Princeton, and will
have two brackets/divisions, one for students that have little to no
experience in competitive programming, and one for students that are
more comfortable with competitive programming. There will be prizes
for both divisions, so everyone has a chance of winning!

Bring **a charged laptop** and optionally pen and paper to work on
problems. To participate all you need is an account on codeforces
([create one here](https://codeforces.com)) and then to join our
codeforces group (if you haven't done so already, click on "Join" [on
this page](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contests)). Just
before the contest starts on Friday we will provide the links to the
submission pages.

The contest starts this **Friday** December 9 at **5:10pm** and lasts
two hours, so it finishes at **7:10pm**, and it will take place in
**Fine Hall 214**. Try to show up at 5pm so you can have time to
setup.

We want to have free pizza and snacks for everyone, just like we do
every week. We need to have an approximate headcount to estimate
how much food we need, so if you could [register
here](https://forms.gle/U13UQextVdcAyotE8) (takes less than 1 minute)
it would be very helpful! If you forget to register you can still
come, this is just so we have an estimate of people.

## Contest Rules

The contest is divided into two divisions: division I; and division
II.

 * **Division II** is intended for those with little or no
   competitive programming experience.

 * **Division I** is intended for those with experience in
     competitive programming.

You should pick whichever one suits you better and you are not allowed
to participate on both divisions, so pick one and stick to it. The two
divisions will contain different problems and prizes for the top
participants in each division.

Note that most contest problems will have appeared before in other
competitions from around the world, we won't have original problems in
our contests unless otherwise mentioned. You shouldn't try to search
for the original problem, since this would be cheating. You are also
**not** allowed to use tools like github copilot or chatGPT.

## Prizes

Here is the list of prizes

 * 1st Place of Div I - Book *Mathematical Puzzles: A Connoisseur's Collection* by Peter Winkler **AND** Book *Guide to Competitive Programming* by Antti Laaksonen ([here is a pdf of the book](https://duoblogger.github.io/assets/pdf/memonvyftw/guide-t-cp.pdf))
 * 1st Place of Div II - Gyroscope physics toy **AND** Book *Guide to Competitive Programming* by Antti Laaksonen ([here is a pdf of the book](https://duoblogger.github.io/assets/pdf/memonvyftw/guide-t-cp.pdf))
 * 2nd Place of Div I - Pyramid Rubik's "cube" and 2x2x2 Rubik's cube **AND** Book *Guide to Competitive Programming* by Antti Laaksonen ([here is a pdf of the book](https://duoblogger.github.io/assets/pdf/memonvyftw/guide-t-cp.pdf))
 * 2nd Place of Div II - 3x3x3 Rubik's cube and 4x4x4 Rubik's cube

Since we have offered similar prizes before, we might switch up the order of prizes to prevent awarding someone a prize they have gotten in the past.

We'll also award an extra fun prize to a participant in either division I
or II that completes a secret challenge, to be revealed at the end.

We'll also have the usual free food and snacks for everyone.