---
permalink: /spring26/week0410
layout: page
---

{% include main_title.html text="Spring 26 - April 10" %}

Welcome to today's problem-solving session! If this is your first time
attending a session please read the following carefully, otherwise feel free
to proceed to the usual problem-solving.

If this is your first time ever doing competitive programming of any kind,
please complete our new [introduction guide]({{ site.baseurl
}}/intro_guide) to get started.

Each of our sessions consists of solving a few coding algorithmic problems.
You are free to do so however you'd like. You can collaborate with other
people, you can ask for help, etc. You can also use AI if you'd like, but
I'd recommend restricting the AI use, otherwise it defeats the purpose of
learning. My personal suggestion is to limit AI use to the Copilot
autocomplete coding features. Avoid asking AI for solutions.

Here is a list of things you should do before getting started, if you
haven't done it already:

- Create an account on [Codeforces](codeforces.com) and log in. This is the
  platform we use to host problems and submit solutions.
- Join our Codeforces group by going to the following link:
  [https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/)
  and clicking on *join* on the right.
- Make sure you are on our Discord. We will post weekly updates and other
  information there. You can also use it to ask for help outside our sessions.
  Ask Pedro for an invite to get in.

Our sessions have two sets of problems, intended for different audiences.

- **Learn Division**. If you have no experience with competitive programming, or
  you are not very comfortable designing and coding algorithms, this is the
  right level for you. We provide a guide with each problem set, containing some
  optional background reading, and then some hints/advice per problem. The level
  of the problems ranges from an easy COS126 problem to a hard COS226 problem.
- **Compete Division**. If you want something beyond the above, this is the
  right division for you. The provided problems won't have any background
  reading material or hints/advice, so it's a more open-ended problem-solving
  environment. The first two problems of each session should be approachable if
  you are comfortable with COS226 level problems. The Compete Division problem
  set will be on contest mode on Codeforces, so there will be an informal,
  ranked scoreboard. You can always keep solving the problems after the session
  is over.

If you are not sure which of the above is the right fit, try one and then switch
if you don't feel comfortable.

You will find all the problems on the Codeforces group link above. The guide
with problem information for the Learn division is available below.

Here are the links to today's problem sets:

- [Learn Division]({{ site.baseurl }}/spring26/week0410_learn)
- [Compete Division](https://codeforces.com/group/hNnRWqFua0/contest/684776) (you have to register for it before you can submit)

Happy solving!
